So we're talking, could you pronounce your name?
Clabroy.
Bernard Clabroy.
Uh-huh.
And Stéphane.
And how if I put this here so it's close to you two.
So you're four generations of booksellers, is that correct?
Yes, my father's grandfather was already there.
Yes.
In this place.
At the beginning, it was a century.
In 1900, he moved in, actually it's 1902 or something like that, he moved in this shop.
Before, he wasn't in the neighborhood before, about 10 minutes from there.
And he moved in 1902.
And his father before him was a bookseller?
No, he's a fourth generation, that's right.
Yeah, because that's under fourth.
My father is third, my grandfather was second,
And my great-grandfather was the first generation.
How does it happen that, you know, how do you decide?
Why did you decide to be a bookseller?
Well, I just... You don't decide.
You just... You don't have to decide.
You just enjoy your being with books or not.
You don't have to think.
You don't even think about it.
So both of you probably can never remember not being around books.
Books have always been a part of your life.
Yeah, definitely.
And your father was a bookseller in this shop?
No, no.
Okay.
There's another Clarois shop.
I see.
Because the story is that my great-grandfather, who was in this shop, in 1900, had two children, a daughter and a son.
The daughter was the eldest of the children.
And she started the business, I mean, she started to work with her father.
And the son, who was my dad's father, went to work with his father's best friend.
He went to another shop in the rue Saint-Permain-des-Arts.
And in the 20s, he went there in the 20s, early 20s, 24.
1922.
And so there was a library with my great-grandfather and his daughter.
And another shop called Magrath with the son, the Clavroy, who was working in Rue Saint-Pondre-des-Arts.
And in the 30s, after having worked with this guy called Magrath for 10 years, my grandfather bought the shop in Rue Saint-Pondre-des-Arts.
So there were two big shops in Clavroy.
And have you always dealt in the same kinds of books?
Why don't you tell us a little bit about what you call it?
Well, first, the great-grandfather started when he was more working in military groups, history, and French history and military history.
And that was his main subject.
And could you tell us the names of your grandfather and your great-grandfather?
Charles Clavroy.
Charles was the great-grandfather.
My father is Raymond.
Raymond.
Okay.
And tell us a little bit about what you do here now.
And you know, what's funny in the story is that the great-grandfather had two children.
The eldest one worked with the father, and the young one went to work with his best friend.
I see.
And then, the young one was my dad's father.
And again, my dad's father had two children, two boys, and the eldest son, which means that the eldest son worked with my grandfather down in the rue Saint-Germain-les-Arts, and the young son, my father, went to work with the man who had bought the shop when my great-grandfather died, Lucien Chelaire,
and who was at that time my grandfather's best friend.
And so my father went to work with Lucien Chelaire in the 60s, early 60s.
And then he bought back from Lucien Chelaire the shop which Lucien Chelaire had bought from the Claveroy in the 30s.
Wow.
Monsieur Chelaire, he's the gentleman who was, I think we had an exchange of...
He's the one losing in Istanbul, yes.
He was 95 years old.
Now, were you able to operate during the war?
Was it possible to have business?
Well, you know, during the war it was a little difficult, because Lucier Chalet was a communist.
Really?
Yeah.
In Paris?
Still is.
That's funny.
Really.
And, you know, during the war, the shop was opened here.
Right here?
Yes.
And he was living upstairs on the top floor of the building.
And in the same apartment, you know the French writer Paul Éloire?
Yes.
He was his best friend.
Really?
In this building?
In this building, yes.
Paul Éloire is communist.
Yeah, probably while I was a communist, too.
And we were being hidden in the flag upstairs.
This was not a safe place to be during the war if you were a communist.
Oh, well, you know, there were plenty of communists in Paris.
And there were printed tracts, communist tracts.
Here?
Upstairs.
And there's a very funny story that Lucien Chaleur tells.
I mean, during the day, he was a bookseller, usual bookseller.
And he had all these German customers before the war.
And once during the war, and at that time he was a bookseller.
At that time he was a communist, printing trucks, and blowing all this stuff.
And one day, there were steps, which probably loved, printing trucks, and putting them into envelopes and things like that.
That's in 1942, 1943.
And somebody rings at the door.
So he opens the door.
I mean, first they put all the trucks and the table and everything, you know.
And then he goes to the door and he opens it.
And he sees a German officer.
So he thinks, OK, we're all dead.
That's fantastic.
And then he looks at the guy.
And the guy says, hello, Mr. Scheller, how are you?
Because he was the head of the Bayerischer Stadtschidiotek, who used to be a really good friend before the war.
And he was, at that time, a German officer.
And, you know, as he was in Paris during the war, he came to see him.
Wow.
And he was just, so they went, I mean, so they went into the shop, and they looked at the books, and they had a really nice sign.
But, you know, at the same time, he was pretty attractive.
Yes.
That's a fascinating story.
Who bought books?
I mean, were French people buying books during the occupation?
I'm sure, yeah.
Who bought books during the occupation?
The same people.
So, I guess I'm trying to say the love for books seems to transcend all situations.
Is that right?
You were about to say something.
Yeah, I agree.
I mean, that's, I'm sure that, I mean, that's always
I mean, you know, since 1989 in Russia, we discovered that although some books were forbidden, there was always a market for bibliography.
During the war?
During the war, or in the eastern part of Iraq.
1989, since the Berlin Wall fell down, we met some customers, and there was a market at that time, although it was forbidden.
Prior to the dissolution of the Soviet Union, there were customers even though it was forbidden.
So how did they do bills?
Did they come here?
They were having business with German dealers.
I see, I see.
How would you describe the kinds of book collectors, the people that you deal with now, if you would describe them?
Established people, older people?
What kind of people?
What do you see in people buying books today?
Do you see a changing with older people, younger people?
I mean, they're always the same.
The thing is that maybe people, I mean, people used to be really good customers without more time.
It's not a customer, it's collector.
Okay, yes, more important.
Older, younger, it's the collector.
Can you describe for me, now you've got four generations, this is amazing, you have four generations of booksellers.
What kinds of things do you bring to the... I mean, there's a European tradition in bookseller, I think, that's kind of remarkable, about understanding the books.
It's not just taking an object and offering it for sale.
I think you have to know... No, that's what my friend would say.
We don't have customers, we have collectors.
And we just... I mean, this is not... I mean, our customers are more friends than...
And it's always been like that in my family, and with Lucien Chelaire, too.
I mean, we've always been really close to the people we sell the books to.
Do you think generational, the collective, is it Lennon family?
Some of them, yes.
Some of them, but not regularly.
So, with Lucien Chelaire,
You say he was a communist during the night and a bookseller during the day.
What kinds of books did he sell, though?
What was his head?
Well, you know, it was, when I say, which means that he was a capitalist during the day.
Oh, that's so funny.
What's the dog's name?
Bazar.
That's my email.
That's the email?
Your email was so close to my email.
I noticed that.
But you know, Bazan is the kind of leather.
Yes.
For bindings.
Bazan is this email.
I didn't understand.
Excuse me, what is it, leather?
It's the special leather for the bindings.
You know, it's, uh, uh, you have the calf.
Yes.
But that's the cheap calf.
Okay.
The cheap calf.
It's a bad quality calf for bindings.
And we call it Bazaan.
Bazaan?
Bazaan.
Because, you know, she's a Mongol.
What kind of Mongol?
Maybe before we go take some pictures of father and son.
Could we take some pictures of you before we go through?
You won't, yeah.
So is this, you have more stock?
So here you have the usual stock.
And I will show you in my dad's office.
We have to save with these big, important books.
How large would you say your inventory is approximately?
Some titles?
Yes, numbers actually.
Titles or numbers?
Combien de pitres?
It doesn't matter.
That's about five thousand dollars.
So you actually, do you acquire books and then try and place them with a collector?
And does a collector tell you what he's looking for?
No.
The way we deal is that we buy the books, then we put them on the shelves, and then we wait for the collector to come and enjoy the book with us.
We never make any offers or things like that.
Really?
That's not the way we deal.
Well, that's philosophic, then.
You must be taught your son this.
Yeah.
Well, that's just the way it is.
Well, it's so different.
I talked to some other booksellers, and they have computers.
Yeah, we have a computer.
That's it.
So I'm trying to get a feel for it.
It's a wonderful attitude, don't you think, Corey?
So I think what you're saying is you have a great respect for the book.
You find the book.
Actually, yes.
We never buy a book thinking, well, I'm buying this book to sell it to this guy.
We always buy it.
When we buy a book, we say, that's an interesting book.
We should have it.
And then once we have it, then we
Describe it, write it, and sell it.
But, I mean, where do we find somebody to buy it?
So, what is your philosophy towards the acquisition of books?
How do you decide what books you want and what books you don't want?
It's completely, as you said, subjective.
Totally subjective.
It's just our feeling, you know?
We look at the book, and when we think it's an interesting book,
And, you know, I don't think there's... You cannot explain why you think this book is worth having, and then, internally, why it's worth more, too, because, I mean, we're jealous, so, I mean, we have to make money.
But there's not... I mean, we cannot explain.
We don't think that this book... I mean, we just think this book should be ours.
No, that's good.
I like that.
So do you often buy books that you have never seen or heard of before?
Let's say you pick up a book, and it's the first time you've ever heard of this book, and yet you feel that this is a book that you have to have.
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, it happens more often to me than to him.
Tell me, how old are you?
Your age.
I'm 28.
My father is 57.
So, did you study at all?
What did you study to help you become a better... First of all, I grew up with books.
And then I studied... Artistry in Paris.
Where did you go to school?
At Sorbonne.
And Artistry at Oxford.
And I did a little red book school at Columbia with Terry Ballinger.
Terry, yes.
And that's that.
I interviewed Terry for this book.
And daddy.
And family.
Oh, that's wonderful.
Did you know all this while, while you were going to Sorbonne, while you were going to Oxford, while you were going to Columbia, and eventually you would be coming?
I first went to Columbia, and then I went to La Sorbonne, and he managed to figure out that I was more in the shop than at La Sorbonne.
Because he was always asking me, but don't you have any lectures?
I said, yeah, that's fine.
I'm happy at the shop.
What can I do for you?
And we did that for one year.
And after one year, I said, OK, well, I think there's one thing you really have to get is, I mean, you have to speak English.
Once you, I mean, whatever you do, you have to speak English.
And so that's why I went out.
I wish I had better French.
My French is lamentably bad, but thankfully I can at least tell the taxi driver where to take you going.
This is very important.
Do you have children?
No, I live married.
But do you think, you know, should you have children?
Because we're approaching the 21st century now, you know.
You wonder what's going to happen to books.
50 years from now, 100 years from now.
Do you ever think about that?
Well, we always hope that they will be collectors forever.
Oh, great work.
You know, I mean, that's... Why not?
I can see that in time.
Are you familiar with the book that I wrote?
It's called A Gentle Madness.
No, you should have a copy that's too big to carry.
I'll mail you one when we get home, if I may.
My book really is about, it's called A Gentle Madness.
It's about the passion for books.
And this new book is really going to go much longer.
examination of the European attitude, because a lot of booksellers came to the United States in the 30s.
They were Jewish booksellers, and one of the byproducts of that is that they brought this European cultural attitude about the books.
It's not just getting something like this and putting a price on it and putting it out there.
It's like you said, looking at a book
I don't even know what this is yet, but I know it's very important.
There's something in it.
There's something in it, and I have to study it.
I have to understand it.
And then when I understand it, I'm going to share my enthusiasm and my knowledge with somebody else.
And maybe that's simplifying what happens, but I think this kind of attitude is what you have passed on to your son and what your father passed on to you.
And when you said, Sorbald, Oxford, Columbia, and he said, and Daddy.
You know, he was speaking volumes there about... I guess I'm trying to get at this.
I don't know if I'm putting it in the right words here.
No, you're right.
I mean, you're definitely right.
Now, I think... Monsieur Chalet, I understand that he was very helpful, helping people during the war.
Is that correct?
Yeah, he was very active during the war.
Yeah.
Helping people who were... Helping people, fighting people.
Fighting people, yes.
Is there anything you could tell me about that?
I'm going to have a chapter on these émigrés, of these people who escaped, you know, the Nazis.
You know, you knew all these communist people,
I mean, when they were passing through Paris, they would be in a compartment.
He would hide them.
That's what he was doing.
He was not really active.
But he assisted people.
OK, let's wait.
Did you have a question?
Do you have a general clientele?
Are there people who come in that you never see before, or is it largely people you do business with kind of the same?
We usually do people with people we know.
I know people we know.
Yeah.
Ninety percent of the business.
How important is the relationship between the bookseller and the collector, establishing a rapport and understanding and knowing what the individual is trying to accomplish?
How important is the bookseller in developing a collection and building one?
It depends on the collector.
We have one, two, three, two really close friends.
They're really good friends, and they're complete rosters.
really building their collection.
They will always, I mean, when we say you should buy this book, they will buy it.
And now, because they've known my father for almost 20 years now, he doesn't have to say, you have to buy this book.
They just get it.
They understand.
You know, we show them the book, and they just
We don't have to explain to them.
We just talk about the book, and then they live with the book.
Four generations of book selling.
Are any of you collectors yourselves?
Do you collect books yourselves?
My father does, yes.
What kinds of things do you collect?
It's got different collections.
It's got one which is the French writer collects.
Most of the manuscripts in front of hands, first editions, dedication copies, presentation copies, and other things.
So that's his main collection.
And then he also made a collection of guide books, early guides from the 16th to the 19th century.
Early guides, which that's about them.
But this collection, he sold a few years ago.
Oh, he sold it?
Yeah.
So was that hard for you?
Yes.
So why did you do it?
We were buying a house.
Yes.
That's usually the answer.
It was a big, yeah.
A big house.
Did you sell it as a collection or a production?
Oh.
The third collection, yes, that's my favorite.
Which is?
It's a crazy collection.
There's no sense.
No sense.
Every time we buy a collection of books, he keeps the book he prefers in the collection.
It doesn't have to be an expensive book.
You said one book from the collection?
One book from every collection.
Wonderful.
And you know, as we're dealing in medicine, science, incunables, travel, medicine, travel.
So every time we buy a group of books, you know that, it doesn't have to deal with a huge collection, but a group of more than 20 books.
It keeps one.
I mean, it keeps the one he likes best.
Can you explain why?
That's what he called his milestone in his life.
In his life as a bookseller.
And you say it doesn't necessarily have to be the best book in the collection or the most important book.
Something that appeals to you.
How does it appeal to you with the way it looks, the content, the way it feels?
I wish the tape recorder would pick that up.
You know, you've got, for instance, in the collection, you've got
You know Jacques Lacan, the psychoanalyst?
Of course, yes.
So the first edition of his thesis on paranoia.
And this is Salvador Dali's coffee.
Oh, that's right.
Jacques Lacan.
L-E-C-A-N.
C-A-N.
And that's from Paramelia.
And it's described to Santa del Dali, to my good friend, who helped me in writing this book.
Well, that's a very important point.
And you know, that's one book.
But he also has one of the first books written in Holland, the Gouda 1490.
Holland, yes.
Lovely.
It's a lovely book about animals, and it's an illustrious book, a terrible book.
Can you name a few others?
The title of the La Psycose Paranoia.
Yes.
It's about the La Psycose Paranoia.
Yeah, the La Psycose Paranoia.
The Dutch book as well.
It's bringing Gouda.
Gouda.
G-O-U-D-A in 1480.
1480.
Yes.
And that's called .
I might query you on the internet at some point, and maybe you could spell some of these questions?
Yeah, sure.
When I send meetings.
Yeah, well, when you have one of my email, that's no problem.
We'll go over a few of these things.
That's great.
And a few others?
A few of them.
So how many items would you say there are in this collection?
I don't know.
How do you, having in your home, or having in your home, and then how do you show them, how do you organize them?
They're just... I mean, you know, all the collections on one, on two shelves, and the other one, every collection has its shelves.
And how long have you been doing that, sir?
Ah, to do.
To do.
So from the very almost, from the beginning, you buy a collection, acquire a collection.
The first one is a guide.
A guide.
Non, mais de la collection de... You think?
C'est... Je crois que c'est... Avec... Comment... Millian Pleno, avec... Qu'est-ce que tu as gardé, Millian Pleno?
It's got also, yeah, the Lavalier catalog, then contemporary one of Morocco, with the arms of the brother of Madame de Pompadour.
It's wonderful, yeah.
They're all completely different books.
But it makes it a collection.
You see, these books... There's somebody to walk in and look and they say, what is the theme here?
The theme is, it's his life and his life as a bookseller life as a bookseller.
Peut-être je dois écrire.
He writes on the... It's écrit sur les... Sur les... Sur les... Sur les... Mais moi, je devrais le... Je devrais... Comme souvenir, quand même.
Ah, moi, je sais très bien.
Right.
Yeah, and what is going to happen?
You think now Sotheby's and Christie are going to be coming into Paris.
Will that affect
I imagine you're too happy about that.
What can we do, I suppose?
No, but we're not... I mean, you know, we also like to do business and to have something going on in Paris.
And we also think that when Christians and Sotheby's are active in Paris, that can bring new people, and that can make, you know, Paris more active in the book world.
So that can be positive.
But one would hope that you certainly wouldn't want to see people who might otherwise offer their collections to booksellers now consigning them to another house in the hope that they can, you know, reap a windfall, I suppose.
Who knows?
Yes, but you know, they were already in Paris.
They couldn't sell the books in Paris.
But they are opposites in Paris.
And so they could get the books anyway.
That all remains.
And how about your collecting?
Are you doing the same?
I'm not collecting.
I don't collect books.
Actually, I like to... I enjoy keeping... But I cannot call that a collection, because I enjoy keeping for myself a nice book.
just because I find it interesting or, but I don't have any, you know, he always has a sense in his collections.
He always has a goal, I mean, there's something which, he always can explain why he kept this book.
I can't, when I've got, I keep some books for myself, but I cannot, I can explain why.
He's not a collector.
Because I like them, but I'm not a collector.
What's the most important thing he taught you, your father taught you about?
What is the most important thing?
He told me that he taught me.
I don't know.
But he said, and daddy, the most important, maybe what he taught you was the reverence for books, I guess, and that's his totality.
I compare, I mean, I don't ask.
I mean, I'm sure that's the love of books, yeah.
But I just came because, you know, as a kid, you would come home and just tell everybody he's enjoying what he's doing.
And he would show the goods.
At that time, I had it.
Why?
Because when your parents liked something, you had it.
That's why I don't play tennis.
And I wish I did, though.
But you say, you know, collectors, you certainly have a reverence for what the book represents.
Yeah.
But if they collect them... I don't collect them as... You know, I'm not a collector of anything.
I will never collect stamps or glasses or... I'm not a collector.
I just like... I enjoy having nice objects.
So I can keep drawing, painting a book...
You know, a 15th-century glass?
Anything, when I like it.
But that's not being a collector, because I don't want, you know, I'm not going to buy only, to keep only drawings, or to keep only books, or to, I just like nice objects.
Describe, if you would, those large folios up there.
Yeah.
What are those?
That's the first edition we also took over the detail.
Really?
Wow.
How many volumes is that?
25.
And how long have you had that?
A long time?
No, but we always want to have a copy of this.
You always want to have a copy?
Yeah.
We like to have a copy on the shelf at this point.
So you'd be in New York.
This one with a copy.
You know, we always have one or two.
So I don't know when we bought this one.
So if you sold one, you buy it, you'd get another one to buy it.
Maybe you wouldn't sell it.
Would you sell it if you didn't have another one to replace it with?
What if I wanted to buy it right now?
Actually, well, of course.
It's for sale.
It's everything.
I mean, we're in a bookshop, so it's for sale.
You may look for another one afterwards, too.
But this one, actually, it's coming from the restaurant.
Oh, yes.
And it has to be collected and taken care of.
So is that the one set of books that you want to have all the time?
Are there any others?
Well, there are some books that we want to have, yeah.
Describe why that is important.
I've never heard that before.
A bookseller said that before.
I've never heard a bookseller say, you always want to have a certain book.
Why is that?
I think we should write.
I think it's a bit of attitude.
Yeah, because we, you know, when we have somebody coming, I mean, we are specialized in science, medicine, travel,
And so we cannot always have a set of, but we always try to have a set of encyclopedias, a set for science, a set of cook travels for travel, a first edition of Claude Bernard for medicine.
You know, there are like, I don't know, 20 or 30 books, and people know that
When they need one, they just come, and we have one.
I see.
And when was that published?
I think you might have said it, but I didn't.
That's in 70 years.
That's between 70 and 82, or something like that.
So that is one of the first great encyclopedias here, right?
Yeah, this is it.
Yes, I picked it up.
This is good.
I like this.
Come on, let me move the coast for about ten days.
Oh, there's a travel page.
Is that specific?
Yeah, this is all the description of this book.
That's a long title.
IDDRO, 17, is it 17?
Yeah, 17 plus the supplements, plus everything, so that means that it's all because they have some... What's this reference so I can check it when I get this one?
Well, this is an exhibition which was in London.
I have that.
Okay, page 119.
Okay.
I'm thinking in London.
So that's one of the great books.
Yeah.
Great French books we went out.
Uh-huh.
And you have another store, I think, too, right?
You have another store?
Is this the only store that you have?
No, because the other one is my uncle's store.
I see.
Okay.
Because I know... Your father's brother?
My father's brother.
Brother.
And now it's my aunt who is running it because my uncle died last year.
So...
I don't know, the consistency, I guess, to the economy at all.
Someone mentioned there are three million more.
There are three million people in France who are unemployed.
Do you find that that's... Not at this level, I don't think.
We can't feel it.
Occasionally, we have some, you know, in our customers, we have some important people in the industry.
So when there are problems,
and they have less time, and they don't come, but that's no big deal.
That's more their time, they're busy, and they can't come, it's not going to tell you.
Yeah, I think to describe your clientele, it's going to be a higher end.
A more higher end kind of client.
And you don't publish catalogues?
We do, yeah, we do, but not frequently.
We publish only...
We published catalogs on special subjects.
Last year we published a science and medicine catalog, and the year before we published a travel catalog, and the year before we published an incunable catalog, so it depends.
Do you have any incunables here in this shop?
Yeah, sure.
Come in the office.
I'll put my pen away, I promise.
It's very good to use.
This is your office or the office?
This is my dad's office.
Uh-huh.
You know, we're the only... Here, we deal with this kind of looks.
This is the first edition of... the Aldine edition of Cinect.
Oh, that's an album.
And this is Francis III's copy.
Oh.
That's in that special, yeah.
No, no, that's just because it was moving in the box.
It's Francis I.
And that's in Aldine.
And this is a manuscript made by Ruslay, who was a calligrapher.
And this was the manuscript which was asked by, when Louis XV married Marie Lepzinska, that's the manuscript he had made for her as a gift for their wedding.
And look at the binding.
Who is the binder on this?
Padlet.
P-I-D-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-U-P P-I-D-L-O-
Yeah, he's 509 years old.
But who did the rebinding on it?
This is an English boy called Francis Burtford.
Whose book played is that?
This one, he was a Belgian collector.
And this is Fairfax Norway?
Oh yes, okay.
They're just coming back from an exhibition.
That you're bringing in children's parents.
They're all in children's parents.
And you had an exhibition?
Yes, we had an exhibition parent.
Very nice.
Do you have cards?
Yeah, sure.
Which are the spellings right of your names.
These are beautiful.
Do you go to any of the book fairs at all?
Yes, we do about four book fairs a year.
We do the California Book Fair.
Oh, you do?
Yeah, the New York Book Fair, the Paris Book Fair, and the Milan Book Fair.
So this is the first edition of Euclid, Venice, 1482, with contemporary binding.
I was going to say, that's a contemporary binding here.
This is called the boss.
The boss is clasps.
That's Euclid.
Oh, look at the type.
Oh, that's exquisite.
And this book was given to a German.
It's a German binding.
Actually, you know, the printer is German in Venice.
And we think that he bought some copy.
And then he went back to Germany.
And so he must have brought some unbound copies.
Because it's a German binding.
So he brought back to Germany.
And the book was given to these men.
I couldn't find who he was.
It's in magnificent condition.
Yeah.
There's no fox.
Very little.
For all those years.
The paper was so good, wasn't it?
Yeah.
Oh, Connie, look at this.
Could you describe that for us?
So this is...
Book of Sowers.
Made in the north of France.
French.
We.
It's what we call canto bourgeois, so that's Flanders.
It's called Simon Marmion.
But we don't know the artist.
This is one of the first reproducers of tennis in the borders.
You see, they have... Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, on gold.
That would make it... We have a wide audience of collectors that might be interested in this.
Look at the flowers.
That is magnificent.
And their game.
Yeah, all the games.
That's golf, you see?
In 1510.
Isn't that something?
Is that unusual for Book of Hours to have games?
These kind of things, yeah.
The borders are really extraordinary in this one.
And it hasn't, thank God, it hasn't been trimmed or anything.
It's just perfect.
Wonderful.
Quite beautiful.
So I know you don't collect, but what do you feel when you hold something like that?
Oh,
I enjoy having it.
But this is not exactly my color.
I mean, I won't be sad when I sell it.
It's business.
That's business, yes.
This is the office.
What was the name of the author?
who lived upstairs during the occupation again.
The writer was called Edouard.
Paul Edouard.
Edouard.
Edouard
So most of the stock is here, though, that you have.
Most of the stock available is in this site.
For the expensive booth, yeah.
Kai, do you have any other questions, I think?
Can we take some pictures, do you mind?
No.
Twenty years ago.
Oh, good.
This is wonderful.
That's in there.
That's here.
Yes, before we read everything we've done.
Two handsome men.
How about different places?
I'm going to take a few.
I really like this generational thing a lot.
Maybe your son's standing behind you.
Yeah.
Let's see up there, on the end of this.
From the end of this manuscript.
Oh, that's a beautiful, I think this will be like this piece of paper.
I like this one.
Maybe you can stand there a little bit.
It's the same as Lucia.
If you could just book up a bit to me.
Oh yeah, let's do it again.
Once again.
Let's go.
Did you want to get any in the office?
You never know how the lighting will be, and that would be sure to get at least one picture.
It would be terrible.
Oh my God.
You hold this.
That's perfect.
You said it's essential to know English.
Why is that?
Sorry?
You said it's essential to know how to speak English.
Why is that?
Why?
Because we have quite a lot of foreign customers, too.
And we deal with... We deal with foreign customers.
Then you get everything about Bessin in your machine.
He's barking at a customer.
And that's because we deal a lot with, you know, in America, in England, in Italy, in Germany, and that's the international language.
You know, you come with speaking English.
Thank you.
Ted Turner had a program about dogs about five, six years ago.
European dogs.
And so the first one was dogs in Scotland.
with the sheep and everything, and the part about the French dogs were the dogs in the bars, in the distros.
And so the man was, I mean, the producer, when they came to France, they were in the neighborhood, and they went to a restaurant, and they said, well, we're looking for funny dogs.
Do you know any?
And the people there at the restaurant said, oh, Bazan, of course.
So the man called me and went to the restaurant, and Bazan wasn't TV in America because of that.
She is a star.
I know.
She is, and she's already had TV experience.
Stefan, you were going to give us your card?
Yes, sure.
Yes.